  Skype interview

* you failed
    a task to upgrade the library to next version
    I read the new documentation and and I made a research in the code base
    I made ammendments where needed.
    My mistake was that I did not tested the solution. I was confident I needed just to
    replace text. What I forgot to do is upgrade the lib version in the configuration.
    This was missed at the code review as well and on deploy it resulted in downtime.
    Since it is supposed to be a HA trading platform this might have caused big issues,
    luckily it was not the case. Now I always test no mather of the scope of the change.

* tell me about the negative example when you worked in a team.
    one of our team memebers didn't want to go to lunch with us and we are a small team

* We are working in different technologies. How can you maintain your knowledge?
    I try to abstract the basic shortcuts and comands. I am using a special editor to do that
    so no matter which technology I use when I want to run some test I just hit space-t.
    I make cheatsheats which I save in git so no matter if I am on different computer I can
    see what I need.

* Tell me a time when you had a conflict in the team.
    We had a service which was buggy and we couldn't fix it with months. One Monday the architect
    of the project came to work and said he rewrote it in different technology in the weekend
    One my teammebers was very upset he did not asked talked about this. We had a long discussion
    and I took the architect side. Finally we get along with the new version but at a time it was
    the whole team arguing about which is the best decision in this moment.

* Tell me a time when you did something that had a big impact.
    I had to integrate a new payment provider for different region and this was critical,
    since it meaned business revenew. It had to be done as soon as possible.

* Tell me a time when you had to take responsability of someone else mistake  
    Before one of my colleagues left he made a massive refactoring we were postponing for some time.
    He wanted to see this done because it was always put on low priority. After that we had some bugs
    I had to fix, this was of course on our staging environment but I could have missed something.

* Tell me about a time you supported someone?
    Once I was in a team of two when my other colleague was junior to me and I spend some time helping
    him with the domain and the technologies.

* What sources do you read? Tell me two books you recently read?
    Lastly I red a book about VIM and The Go programming language

* What is your motivation for applying to skyscanner?
    I have been on some tech talks I like the fact that you are keen on cutting edge technologies
    I liked the people and the atmosphere

* 2 x How would you explain your work to somebody who isn't an engineer?
    I try to skip unnesesarry details. What I do is I try to describe the big picture with basic
    tech terminology. I the person have some difficulties with the terminology I explain it as well.

* attitude, ambitions, skills, education, interests, previous projects, and place in Skyscanner.

* When did you take risk?
    We needed to deploy a feature fast and we have thought about 95% of the cases and we knew there
    is a way to 

* Which has been your most complex project
    I had to make a mock of our backend system for development purposes. This ment knowning the logic
    behind he MT4 server and reproducing it.

* How do you handle differing opinions?
    I listen to them and try to see if they are based on previous experience or different sources
    of research. If they are based on previous exp I am think if this is applicable in this
    particular context. If it is research I check the sources and validate them. If the person
    could not make clear arument of his oppinion I use my intuition about the current problem
    and the personality of my peer.

* How have you contributed positively to a workplace before?
    I have made some tech speaches as well as I try to help when needed.

* My familiarity with agile methodology
    I have finished a basic Scrum course and we are using agile methology at the moment in our
    company.

* Explain difficult situations around your current position / reaction
    It is difficult to fix a bug which is live at the moment and you have to keep your calm and
    think logically.

* Tell me a time when you made use of data to make a decision.
    Once I had to choose some instruments as default favorites. I went to prod environment and
    made some queries about all the transactions. After I got the result the decision was easy.
    There were some outliners which held 80% of the volume.

* Tell me a time when you had to persuade a group of people.
    Once I had to persuade my team to use a specific tool so I made a presentation about it.
    I showed them how it work and how it helped my work. The outcome was that two people switched
    to using this technology.


Questions

I saw a progress bar in the emails, one of 7 completed, what does it mean?
how should I prepare for the next stages of the process?

1000 employees

Openening full stack - front end development


front end task

7 days to complete the test

UK - deff
Spain

2 video calls

technical interiew
12-14

build api

culture interview
12-14

expeience conflicts

5 sofia office
real life problem

engineers blog
up to date
